$ bash -n seats/evidence-scrub.sh seats/*.selftest.sh

$ WHEELHOUSE_SKIP_REAL_PI=1 bash seats/evidence-scrub.selftest.sh
  ok    capture command writes a non-empty scrubbed evidence file
  ok    planted tmp, home, and username values are redacted
  ok    scrubbed capture contains none of the planted raw values

evidence-scrub.selftest: PASS

$ WHEELHOUSE_SKIP_REAL_PI=1 bash seats/seat-env.selftest.sh

$ WHEELHOUSE_SKIP_REAL_PI=1 bash seats/adapter.selftest.sh

1. two seats, one namespace — isolation
  ok    seat one: fresh seat run exits 0
  ok    seat one: seat directory created
  ok    seat one: namespace root .project backlink records this project
  ok    seat one: trust.json pre-grants the project root, exactly
  ok    seat one: export line names this seat's own directory
  ok    seat one: fresh seat gets a one-time credential flow
  ok    seat two: fresh seat run exits 0
  ok    seat two: seat directory created
  ok    seat two: namespace root .project backlink records this project
  ok    seat two: trust.json pre-grants the project root, exactly
  ok    seat two: export line names this seat's own directory
  ok    seat two: fresh seat gets a one-time credential flow
  ok    the two seats' auth.json paths are distinct — accounts cannot collide

1b. optional account.label — provisioning summary shows it when present
  ok    labeled seat: fresh seat run exits 0
  ok    labeled seat: seat directory created
  ok    labeled seat: namespace root .project backlink records this project
  ok    labeled seat: trust.json pre-grants the project root, exactly
  ok    labeled seat: export line names this seat's own directory
  ok    labeled seat: fresh seat gets a one-time credential flow
  ok    provisioning summary includes account.label from seats.json
  ok    provisioning still works when account.label is absent

2. idempotency
  ok    rerun exits 0 and says the trust grant is already current
  ok    rerun leaves the namespace root .project backlink byte-identical
  ok    rerun leaves trust.json byte-identical

2b. refusal — namespace root belongs to one project
  ok    a .project backlink for a different root STOPS the run
  ok    the collision refusal leaves the .project backlink byte-identical
  ok    the collision refusal does not create the requested seat directory

3. refusal — an auth.json holding an identity is identity, not clutter
  ok    auth: run over a logged-in seat exits 0
  ok    auth: existing auth.json left byte-identical
  ok    auth: no credential flow beside a live auth.json
  ok    auth: says why the login command is withheld

3b. an EMPTY {} auth.json is not a login — pi auto-creates one headless
  ok    a seat with only pi's auto-created {} auth.json still gets the credential flow
  ok    the empty auth.json itself is left byte-identical
  ok    says why an existing-but-empty auth.json is not a login

4. refusal — a trust file this script did not write
  ok    a trust.json missing the project root STOPS the run, with the reason
  ok    the refusal wrote nothing over the foreign trust file

5. refusing to guess
  ok    no pi on PATH is a STOP, named as MISSING
  ok    a relative project root is refused
  ok    a seat name with '..' is refused
  ok    a project root that does not exist is refused

5b. a symlinked root is canonicalized — pi matches canonical paths only
  ok    a root passed through a symlink is granted by its physical path

6. default project root — the checkout you run it from
  ok    with no root argument, trust is granted to the directory the run stood in

7. canary — can these checks detect a broken script?
  ok    canary: a script that grants no trust is caught
  ok    canary: a script that invites a re-login over a live identity is caught

seat-env.sh works on this machine.

$ WHEELHOUSE_SKIP_REAL_PI=1 bash seats/verify.selftest.sh

installed layout — wheelhouse/fleet brief is preferred without contracts/
  ok    installed layout: spawn exits 0 with no contracts/ directory
  ok    installed layout: worker brief resolves to wheelhouse/fleet/WORKER.md
  ok    missing brief: STOP names both installed and template paths tried

roster account.label — shown when present, optional when absent
  ok    spawn output includes account.label when the roster has one
  ok    status output includes account.label when the roster has one

roster model suffix — malformed thinking suffix is pi's validation failure, surfaced at spawn
  ok    malformed suffix: pi rejects it and adapter surfaces the stderr tail

0. seat-name validation — a name is one path segment or it is refused
  ok    seat name with a path separator is refused with a loud STOP
  ok    seat name with a dot segment is refused with a loud STOP
  ok    seat name with whitespace is refused with a loud STOP
  ok    seat name with a quote is refused with a loud STOP
  ok    seat name with nothing (empty) is refused with a loud STOP
  ok    the STOP names the offending key

1. spawn — process, identity, and what was actually launched
  ok    spawn: spawn exits 0
  ok    spawn: state.json records a live pid
  ok    spawn: state.json records a session file that exists
  ok    pi was launched in RPC mode
  ok    role brief injected: --append-system-prompt names contracts/WORKER.md
  ok    roster's provider and model-plus-thinking pin the launch
  ok    state.json records the exact model-plus-thinking pin
  ok    spawn with no bead id roots the seat at the project root
  ok    a second spawn of a live seat is refused

2. dispatch — prompt round trip lands in log and session
  ok    dispatching a bead with no worktree is a loud STOP
  ok    the seat is left running, not stopped, when the target worktree is missing
  ok    dispatch exits 0
  ok    agent_end captured in the event log
  ok    the dispatched text (bead-prefixed) came back through the turn
  ok    session file grew (1 -> 3 lines)
  ok    state.json records the dispatched bead
  ok    dispatch relaunched the seat rooted in the bead's worktree, by construction
  ok    the cwd-changing relaunch reattached the SAME session (--session), not a cold start

3. steer — a redirect lands inside a turn still in flight
  ok    steer exits 0
  ok    the steer reached the seat mid-turn

4. state survives the adapter — every invocation is a fresh process
  ok    a fresh status invocation reads worker-1 as RUNNING from state.json
  ok    status still works for a roster with no account.label

5. no tokens — identity never leaks into state or logs
  ok    auth.json's content appears nowhere in state.json or the logs

6. stop, then resume — the session comes back warm
  ok    stop exits 0 and the process is gone
  ok    state keeps the session but drops the pid
  ok    resume: resume exits 0
  ok    resume: relaunch attached the recorded session via --session
  ok    the same session file grew on resume — warm context survives
  ok    lastBead survives the stop/resume cycle

6b. pruned cwd — dispatch falls back visibly; plain resume STOPs
  ok    pruned cwd setup: resume exits 0 before pruning
  ok    pruned cwd dispatch: dispatch exits 0 via fallback
  ok    pruned cwd dispatch: fallback announcement is visible and names why
  ok    pruned cwd dispatch: fallback used a fresh session rather than --session
  ok    pruned cwd dispatch: state records the new dispatched bead
  ok    pruned cwd resume: no-dispatch-target resume STOPs and names the fallback limitation

7. canary — can these checks detect a broken adapter?
  ok    canary: an adapter that records no state is caught
  ok    canary: an adapter that resumes without the session is caught

8. real pi — one smoke leg, spawn/dispatch/agent_end/resume/grow
  SKIP  real-pi leg: WHEELHOUSE_SKIP_REAL_PI=1

adapter.ts works on this machine.

installed layout — wheelhouse/crew brief is preferred without contracts/
  ok    installed layout: APPROVE exits 0 with no contracts/ directory
  ok    installed layout: verifier brief resolves to wheelhouse/crew/VERIFIER.md
  ok    missing brief: STOP names both installed and template paths tried

multi-repo umbrella layout — --repo selects the product repository
  ok    umbrella layout: APPROVE exits 0 when --repo names the product repo
  ok    umbrella layout: verdict records the product repo and product-relative evidence floor check
  ok    umbrella layout: omitting --repo still measures the umbrella root and refuses the product branch

1. APPROVE — verdict parsed, recorded, exit 0, and what was launched
  ok    APPROVE exits 0
  ok    the verdict is printed for the dispatcher
  ok    verdict file written to seats/verdicts/bead-1.md
  ok    verdict file carries verdict, tip SHA, and the evidence excerpt
  ok    verdict file names itself a working copy, not an evidence home
  ok    pi was launched one-shot: -p --no-session
  ok    role brief injected: --append-system-prompt names contracts/VERIFIER.md
  ok    the VERIFIER seat's provider and model pin the launch (not the author's)
  ok    prompt carries the bead id, the tip SHA, and the bead-claim reference
  ok    the verifier's cwd is NOT the project root
  ok    the verifier's cwd is the scratch worktree makeScratchCwd() creates
  ok    the scratch worktree is unregistered after verify.ts exited (process-exit cleanup ran)
  ok    the scratch worktree directory no longer exists on disk
  ok    APPROVE — NOT BENCHED still exits 0
  ok    the NOT BENCHED qualifier survives into the verdict record

2. BOUNCE — exit 2
  ok    BOUNCE exits 2
  ok    BOUNCE verdict recorded

3. DISCOVER — exit 3, proposal recorded, no beads filed
  ok    DISCOVER exits 3
  ok    the dispatcher says out loud that no beads were filed
  ok    verdict file records the proposal for the commander

4. self-approval — same account dir is a STOP before any spawn
  ok    self-approval: identical account dirs refused with a STOP, exit 1
  ok    self-approval: nothing was spawned — the stub was never invoked

5. malformed output — an error, never a judgment
  ok    missing VERDICT: line exits 1 with a STOP
  ok    no verdict file written for a non-verdict
  ok    two conflicting VERDICT: lines exit 1 rather than picking one
  ok    NOT BENCHED on a non-APPROVE verdict exits 1
  ok    an unknown verdict value exits 1
  ok    a failing pi exits 1 even when a VERDICT line is present
  ok    a verifier roster without account.label still reaches the provider-error path
  ok    provider-error stderr path includes verifier account.label when present

6. preconditions — the STOPs that guard the spawn
  ok    a branch that does not resolve is a STOP
  ok    an unknown author seat is a STOP — distinctness needs a named account
  ok    naming a non-verifier seat as the verifier is a STOP
  ok    a verifier seat that was never logged in is a STOP
  ok    an author seat with a path separator is a STOP
  ok    an author seat of dot-dot is a STOP
  ok    an author seat with whitespace is a STOP
  ok    an author seat with a quote is a STOP
  ok    an empty author seat is a STOP
  ok    a bead id with a path separator (it names the verdict file) is a STOP
  ok    an explicit verifier seat with a path separator is a STOP

7. no tokens — identity never leaks into the verdict record
  ok    auth.json's content appears nowhere in seats/verdicts/

8. evidence — artifacts the bead names gate the verdict
  ok    APPROVE over a satisfied bench log + screenshot exits 0
  ok    verdict file records per-artifact checks: exists, bytes, type probe
  ok    the floor-check results reach the verifier's prompt
  ok    APPROVE over a zero-byte screenshot is malformed, exit 1
  ok    APPROVE over an artifact absent from the tip is malformed, exit 1
  ok    a text file posing as .png is caught by the magic-byte probe
  ok    a PNG with a zero dimension is degenerate, refused
  ok    the gate blocks only APPROVE — BOUNCE over failed evidence still exits 2
  ok    the failed floor check is still recorded on a BOUNCE
  ok    an absolute evidence path is a STOP
  ok    a dot-dot evidence path is a STOP

9. canary — can these checks detect a broken verify.ts?
  ok    canary: a verify.ts that lets the author verify itself is caught
  ok    canary: a verify.ts with its verdict write cut is caught by the file check
  ok    canary: a verify.ts that approves over missing evidence is caught by the exit-1 check

10. sweep — a SIGKILLed run's scratch worktree is reclaimed, a live one is spared
  ok    both a planted orphan (dead pid) and a planted live (real pid) scratch worktree are registered
  ok    the orphaned scratch worktree (dead pid) was reclaimed: unregistered and removed from disk
  ok    the live scratch worktree (real running pid) was spared — still registered and on disk
  ok    once its owner pid actually exits, a later sweep reclaims that worktree too

11. real pi — one smoke leg through the actual binary (SKIP-able)
  SKIP  real-pi leg: WHEELHOUSE_SKIP_REAL_PI=1

verify.ts works on this machine.
