$ bash seats/seat-env.selftest.sh

1. two seats, one namespace — isolation
  ok    seat one: fresh seat run exits 0
  ok    seat one: seat directory created
  ok    seat one: namespace root .project backlink records this project
  ok    seat one: trust.json pre-grants the project root, exactly
  ok    seat one: export line names this seat's own directory
  ok    seat one: fresh seat gets a one-time credential flow
  ok    seat two: fresh seat run exits 0
  ok    seat two: seat directory created
  ok    seat two: namespace root .project backlink records this project
  ok    seat two: trust.json pre-grants the project root, exactly
  ok    seat two: export line names this seat's own directory
  ok    seat two: fresh seat gets a one-time credential flow
  ok    the two seats' auth.json paths are distinct — accounts cannot collide

1b. optional account.label — provisioning summary shows it when present
  ok    labeled seat: fresh seat run exits 0
  ok    labeled seat: seat directory created
  ok    labeled seat: namespace root .project backlink records this project
  ok    labeled seat: trust.json pre-grants the project root, exactly
  ok    labeled seat: export line names this seat's own directory
  ok    labeled seat: fresh seat gets a one-time credential flow
  ok    provisioning summary includes account.label from seats.json
  ok    provisioning still works when account.label is absent

2. idempotency
  ok    rerun exits 0 and says the trust grant is already current
  ok    rerun leaves the namespace root .project backlink byte-identical
  ok    rerun leaves trust.json byte-identical

2b. refusal — namespace root belongs to one project
  ok    a .project backlink for a different root STOPS the run
  ok    the collision refusal leaves the .project backlink byte-identical
  ok    the collision refusal does not create the requested seat directory

3. refusal — an auth.json holding an identity is identity, not clutter
  ok    auth: run over a logged-in seat exits 0
  ok    auth: existing auth.json left byte-identical
  ok    auth: no credential flow beside a live auth.json
  ok    auth: says why the login command is withheld

3b. an EMPTY {} auth.json is not a login — pi auto-creates one headless
  ok    a seat with only pi's auto-created {} auth.json still gets the credential flow
  ok    the empty auth.json itself is left byte-identical
  ok    says why an existing-but-empty auth.json is not a login

4. refusal — a trust file this script did not write
  ok    a trust.json missing the project root STOPS the run, with the reason
  ok    the refusal wrote nothing over the foreign trust file

5. refusing to guess
  ok    no pi on PATH is a STOP, named as MISSING
  ok    a relative project root is refused
  ok    a seat name with '..' is refused
  ok    a project root that does not exist is refused

5b. a symlinked root is canonicalized — pi matches canonical paths only
  ok    a root passed through a symlink is granted by its physical path

6. default project root — the checkout you run it from
  ok    with no root argument, trust is granted to the directory the run stood in

7. canary — can these checks detect a broken script?
  ok    canary: a script that grants no trust is caught
  ok    canary: a script that invites a re-login over a live identity is caught

seat-env.sh works on this machine.
